[docs] Add doc for EAS SSO (#23758)
expo/expo: docs/pages/accounts/sso.mdx

---
title: Single Sign-On (SSO)

> description: Learn about how your enterprise organization can use your Identity Provider to manage Expo users.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn about how your enterprise organization can use your Identity Provider to manage Expo users in your team.
```

I think we need to add context as to what "Expo users" is meant here.

---

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

import { Terminal } from '~/ui/components/Snippet';
```

> ## Configure SSO for your organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Not required to add a title since the first paragraph can serve as an intro to the whole page.

> SSO is available for Enterprise Plan customers. To get started, contact us and we'll help you set it up for your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSO is available for [Enterprise Plan](https://expo.dev/pricing) customers. To get started, contact us and we'll help you set it up for your organization.
```

Adding a link to the pricing page.

> > The Expo SSO system should support any Identity Provider (IdP) that supports [OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html). We have tested [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) and plan to test others as requested.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> The Expo SSO system supports any Identity Provider (IdP) that supports [OpenID Connect Discovery 1.0](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-discovery-1_0.html). We have tested [Okta](https://www.okta.com/) and plan to test others as requested.
```

"should support" is not the phrase I'd like us to use in docs. It signifies that we are confident but not sure.

Reviewer 2: Wonder if we could rephrase this to the effect of "We currently formally support Okta, but we implement the OIDC Discovery 1.0 spec, and are working to verify additional providers that implement the spec. If you use another provider and are interested in SSO, let us know."

## SSO user sign in

### Expo website

> 1. Navigate to https://expo.dev/sso-login and enter the account name of your organization.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to [expo.dev/sso-login](https://expo.dev/sso-login) and enter the account name of your organization.
```

Reviewer: Btw, the link in above is 404. not sure if the page be up by the time docs are published.

>     > You can create a link that pre-fills the organization name. For example, https://expo.dev/sso-login/test-org will pre-fill `test-org`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > You can create a link that pre-fills the organization name. For example, [expo.dev/sso-login/test-org](https://expo.dev/sso-login/test-org) pre-fills `test-org`.
```

1. Log in to your identity provider (IdP).

> 1. You will then be asked to choose a Expo username. This will be your username in Expo.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Next, you'll be prompted to select an Expo username. This is your username in the Expo account.
```

### Expo CLI

> `npx expo login --sso`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using Expo CLI, you can run the following command to log in to your Expo account.

<Terminal cmd={["$ npx expo login --sso"]} />
```

- Please add context as to when this command is useful or has to be used by the end user. I've added as a placeholder.
- Also use `Terminal` component to display a command.

### EAS CLI

> `eas login --sso`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using EAS CLI, you can run the following command to log in to your Expo account.

<Terminal cmd={["$ eas login --sso"]} />

```

> `eas login --sso`

Reviewer 2: For EAS and Expo CLI's, we should describe what happens, like, that your web browser will open and either take you the SSO login page and redirect, or redirect back immediately if you're already logged in.

### Expo Go

> 1. Go through normal sign in flow but click "Continue with SSO" button on sign in page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Click the **Continue with SSO** button on the sign-in page when going through the sign-in flow.
```

I think we can put attention to the different step that user has to take when going through this step.

> 1. Follow steps for Expo website above.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Follow the steps for the Expo website above.
```

Which steps from "above" do we refer to here?

## SSO user restrictions

> SSO users are just like regular users for the most part, but there are a few known exceptions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
SSO users are like regular users. However, there are a few known exceptions:
```

We can remove "just" usage as it doesn't have significance here and make it more concise.

- SSO users can only belong to their SSO organization. They also cannot create additional organizations.
- SSO users cannot leave their SSO organization. Doing so deletes their SSO user.

> - SSO users cannot access the Expo forums.

Reviewer 2: Will it kick them out entirely or just not let them be logged in on the forums, comment, etc.?

- SSO users cannot subscribe to EAS for their personal accounts.

## SSO administration

> ### Removing SSO users

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Remove SSO users
```

We've started using short form verbs instead of gerunds in section headings.

> If someone has left your organization, first remove/disable them in your IdP. This user will no longer have access to their Expo account in at most the token refresh duration you have configured in your IdP.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If someone has left your organization, remove or disable them in your IdP. This user will no longer have access to their Expo account in at most the token refresh duration you have configured in your IdP.
```

- Let's be a bit concise and authoritative.
- "their Expo account in at most the token refresh duration you have configured in your IdP" this phrase is confusing. as  a user I'm not sure I understand what is meant by "... at most the token refresh duration...". Does it mean by the time refresh token duration configured in their IdP expires?

> If you wish to remove them ahead of that time or you wish to remove them to clean up users on your account, you may do so in the organization member settings page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you wish to remove them ahead of that time or you wish to remove them to clean up users on your account, you may do so on the organization member settings page:
```

- Correct preposition usage.

1. Navigate to your [organization account member settings](https://expo.dev/accounts/[account]/settings/members)

> 2. Click the dropdown next to the member you wish to delete, and click "Delete SSO user"

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Click the dropdown next to the member you wish to delete, and click **Delete SSO user**
```

    > **warning** This will delete their personal account and all data associated with it. All data in your organization account will remain unaffected.

> ### Changing billing or discontinuing use of SSO

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Change billing or discontinue use of SSO
```

> An active Enterprise Plan is required to continue using SSO. Contact us if you wish to discontinue use of SSO or change your plan.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An active Enterprise Plan is required to continue using SSO. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) if you wish to discontinue the use of SSO or change your plan.
```

> ### Deleting your SSO organization

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Delete SSO organization
```

> Once SSO is configured for an organization, account deletion must be done manually by Expo. Contact us for assistance.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once SSO is configured for an organization, account deletion must be done manually by the Expo team. [Contact us](https://expo.dev/contact) for assistance.
```

### Expo CLI

When using the Expo CLI, you can run the following command to log in to your Expo account.

<Terminal cmd={["$ npx expo login --sso"]} />

You will be prompted to log in via the Expo website in a browser and will be redirected back to the CLI upon completion.

### EAS CLI

When using the EAS CLI, you can run the following command to log in to your Expo account.

<Terminal cmd={["$ eas login --sso"]} />

You will be prompted to log in via the Expo website in a browser and will be redirected back to the CLI upon completion.

### Expo Go

1. Click the **Continue with SSO** button on the sign-in page when going through the sign-in flow.
1. Follow the above steps for signing in to the Expo website.

## SSO user restrictions

SSO users are like regular users. However, there are a few known exceptions:
- SSO users can only belong to their SSO organization. They also cannot create additional organizations.
- SSO users cannot leave their SSO organization. Doing so deletes their SSO user.
- SSO users cannot log in to the Expo forums.
- SSO users cannot subscribe to EAS for their personal accounts.

## SSO administration

> Both new organizations and existing organizations are supported. Organizations with existing non-SSO users can enable SSO and both non-SSO users and SSO users can continue to be added. Migration of non-SSO users to SSO users is not currently supported.

Reviewer 2: I could see it the other way, but if it's the case that an SSO user can be added with the same email as a non-SSO user, it'd be my preference to document it. I feel like this is going to be the way existing orgs evaluate and/ or migrate to SSO initially. I can make it part of an internal script, but if it's part of the documentation, less need for someone to ask how they should migrate themselves and less room for me to second-guess myself here.

That's assuming this is what we would encourage them to do at all and don't feel like there's too much risk of confusion. I think it's worth a small-ish existing org to consider, because otherwise a key user can only get feedback about SSO by asking new org members how it's going (way slower feedback loop, less confidence in the offering).

Author: I don't think we should encourage migration necessarily. Maybe it's a terminology thing. I guess I would describe it as "enabling SSO as a sign in option to the org" versus "migrating the org to SSO". So the person evaluating it would just be creating a new expo SSO user, but that's not what we should recommend for all their users to do.

By design, it is fine to have both SSO users and non-SSO users, and yes, they can have the same email. As for evaluation, I could see it as happening in the following order:
1. We set it up for them
2. Someone on their IT team tries it out with their account on their IdP (it can have the same email as their existing expo user account)
3. They decide to leave SSO enabled, and only new members are added via SSO. Old members can keep working as normal.

Author: I'll document this a bit.

Author: One other important thing is that SSO users don't know they have an email. It's an implementation detail, and not all SSO users do have an email either.

Reviewer 2: In the sort term I'm more focused on existing key users to be able to use SSO themselves, not necessarily migration. If I tell key user at partner X that SSO is ready for them, but it's just for new accounts, their first question is going to be, "well, how do I try it out?" Noting the second account path is possible covers that and at least hints at an informal migration strategy that could be pursued before we offer something more formal.

Even if it's not technically required, I think full migration/ adoption will be the goal for many orgs. Without full migration, these orgs do not get the full benefits of SSO (ability to revoke access, manage password/ MFA policies across, etc. for all users from their central identity provider).

Author: Yeah, that makes sense. I think we'll iron this out through the first couple onboardings and go from there. The preview release will definitely not be super smooth.
